.TH img2txt 1 "2007-11-07" "libcaca"
.SH NAME
img2txt \- convert images to various text-based coloured files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B img2txt 
[
.B \-W
.I width
]
[
.B \-H
.I height
]
[
.B \-x
.I font-width
]
[
.B \-y
.I font-height
]
.PD 0
.IP
.PD
 [
.B \-b
.I brightness
]
[
.B \-c
.I contrast
]
[
.B \-g
.I gamma
]
.PD 0
.IP
.PD
 [
.B \-d
.I dither
]
[
.B \-f
.I format
] 
.I FILE
.RI
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B img2txt
converts images to colour ASCII characters and outputs them to text-based
coloured files.
.PP
.B img2txt
can load the most widespread image formats: PNG, JPEG, GIF, PNG, BMP etc (see 
.B NOTES
for details).
By default the output text is 60 columns wide, and the line count is 
computed accordingly to respect aspect ratio of original file. 
The default output format is standard ANSI coloured text.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-W, \-\-width=<width>
Change output column count. If not given, the default is set to 60.
.TP
.B \-H, \-\-height=<height>
Change output line count. If not given, the height is computed to match correct aspect ratio.
.TP
.B \-x, \-\-font-width=<width>
Change output font width. If not given, the default is set to 6. This value will be used for computing aspect ratio.
.TP
.B \-y, \-\-font-height=<height>
Change output font height. If not given, the default is set to 10. This value will be used for computing aspect ratio.
.TP
.B \-b, \-\-brightness=<brightness>
Change image brightness. Default to 1.0.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-contrast=<contrast>
Change image contrast. Default to 1.0.
.TP
.B \-g, \-\-gamma=<gamma>
Change image gamma. Default to 1.0.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-dither=<dither>
Change dithering algorithm. This can be one of the following (default to fstein) :
  none     : Nearest color
  ordered2 : Ordered 2x2
  ordered4 : Ordered 4x4
  ordered8 : Ordered 8x8
  random   : Random
  fstein   : Floyd Steinberg
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-format=<format>
Change output format. This can be one of the following (default to ansi) :
  ansi  : coloured ANSI 
  caca  : internal libcaca format
  utf8  : UTF8 with CR
  utf8  : UTF8 with CRLF (MS Windows)
  html  : HTML with CSS and DIV support
  html3 : Pure HTML3 with tables
  irc   : IRC with ctrl-k codes
  bbfr  : BBCode (French)
  ps    : Postscript
  svg   : Scalable Vector Graphics
  tga   : Targa Image
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Display version of the program and exit.

.SH EXAMPLES
img2txt hello.jpg > hello.ans

img2txt \-\-width=40 \-\-format=svg hello.jpg > tinyhello.svg

.SH NOTES
Setting both column and line count (using 
\-\-width
and
\-\-height) will let you choose the exact output size without taking aspect ratio in account.

You must compile libcaca package with support of
.I Imlib2
to be able to load a wide variety of image formats. Otherwise you will only  be able to load regular BMP files.

.SH SEE ALSO
cacaview(1)
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Sam Hocevar <sam@hocevar.net> and Jean-Yves Lamoureux <jylam@lnxscene.org>.
